README.md, before:

## flutter_shader_kit

High‑quality, real‑time UI effects powered by fragment shaders for Flutter. Flutter Shader Kit provides production‑ready widgets: frost overlays, reeded glass (fractal blur), rainy glass, motion blur, animated clouds, a liquid glass container, a curl card, and a frost transition switcher.

Works on Flutter 3.7+ with the FragmentProgram API. Backdrop modes that use ImageFilter.shader work best with Impeller.

### Why use this?
- GPU‑accelerated effects with minimal boilerplate
- Drop‑in widgets with sensible defaults and tunable parameters
- No manual shader plumbing in your app code

---

## Installation

Add the package and its shader runtime to your app. This library uses the utilities (`ShaderBuilder`, `AnimatedSampler`, etc.) from `flutter_shaders`.

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  # Shader runtime utilities used by this package
  flutter_shaders: ^0.1.3
  # This package
  flutter_shader_kit: ^0.1.0
```

If you’re using this repository directly (local development):

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  flutter_shaders: ^0.1.3
  # Use a local path or git dependency for this library
  flutter_shader_kit:
    path: ../flutter_shader_fork
```

Notes:
- Shader assets are bundled in this package – consumers don’t need to list them in their app’s `flutter: shaders:` section.
- Backdrop variants rely on `ImageFilter.shader`. On devices/targets without Impeller support, these gracefully no‑op (fall back) where possible.

---

## Quick start

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:flutter_shader_kit/flutter_shaders.dart';

void main() => runApp(const MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const MyApp({super.key});
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      home: Scaffold(
        body: Stack(
          children: [
            // Animated clouds background
            const CloudShader(),
            Center(
              child: Column(
                mainAxisSize: MainAxisSize.min,
                children: const [
                  // Reeded glass look over any child
                  SizedBox(
                    width: 300,
                    height: 160,
                    child: FractalBlurLayer(
                      child: FlutterLogo(size: 120),
                    ),
                  ),
                  SizedBox(height: 24),
                  // Frost overlay you can trigger with a controller
                  FrostShaderLayer(
                    child: Text('Frost me'),
                  ),
                ],
              ),
            ),
          ],
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

---

## Widgets and utilities

Below are each widget/utility, parameters, defaults, and example usage.

### 1) `CloudShader`
Animated procedural cloud backgrounds. Two styles: `realistic` (noise‑based) and `toon` (stylized).

Imports:
```dart
import 'package:flutter_shader_kit/flutter_shaders.dart';
```

Constructor (defaults shown):
- `style` = `CloudShaderStyle.realistic`
- `child` = `null` (optional overlay content)
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `enabled` = `true`
- `animate` = `true`
- `animationSpeed` = `1.0`
- `cloudDensity` = `1.0` (realistic)
- `noisiness` = `0.35` (realistic)
- `flowSpeed` = `0.1` (realistic)
- `cloudHeight` = `2.5` (realistic)
- `brightness` = `1.0` (realistic)
- `windSpeed` = `1.0` (toon)
- `blurScale` = `1.0` (toon)
- `skyColor`/`cloudColor` = `null` (auto by style)
- `opacity` = `1.0`

Example:
```dart
const CloudShader(
  style: CloudShaderStyle.realistic,
  opacity: 0.95,
  child: Center(child: Text('On top of clouds')),
)
```

### 2) `FractalBlurLayer`
Reeded glass effect (directional blur + refraction) applied to a child or backdrop.

Constructor:
- `child` (Widget) required
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `frequency` = `40.0`
- `refractAmount` = `500.0`
- `split` = `1.0` (mix between processed/original)
- `feather` = `0.003`
- `blurRadius` = `20.0`
- `blurStrength` = `1.0`
- `enabled` = `true`
- `useBackdrop` = `false` (uses `BackdropFilter` when `true`)

Example:
```dart
const FractalBlurLayer(
  blurRadius: 16,
  blurStrength: 0.85,
  child: YourContent(),
)
```

### 3) `FrostBlurLayer`
Frosted glass blur/distortion with optional circle/rounded‑rect clipping and backdrop mode.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `shape` = `BoxShape.rectangle`
- `noiseScale` = `6.0`
- `distortion` = `0.045`
- `directionalMix` = `0.25`
- `iterations` = `12`
- `blend` = `1.0` (0 = original, 1 = full frost)
- `enabled` = `true`
- `useBackdrop` = `false`
- `borderRadius` = `null` (when rectangle)

Example (rounded rectangle):
```dart
const FrostBlurLayer(
  borderRadius: BorderRadius.all(Radius.circular(24)),
  child: YourContent(),
)
```

### 4) `FrostShaderLayer`
Spreading frost overlay animation over its child. Trigger via `FrostLayerController`.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `controller` = `null`
- `duration` = `900ms`
- `curve` = `Curves.easeInOutCubic`
- `frostiness` = `0.55`
- `blurAmount` = `3.0`
- `ringWidth` = `0.12`
- `ringIrregularity` = `0.28`
- `ringNoiseScale` = `1.2`
- `bloomStrength` = `0.35`
- `bloomWidth` = `12.0`
- `bloomColor` = `Color(0xCCBFE3FF)`
- `onCompleted` = `null`

Usage:
```dart
final controller = FrostLayerController();

FrostShaderLayer(
  controller: controller,
  child: const YourContent(),
)

// Trigger later
controller.play();
```

### 5) `LiquidGlassContainer`
Container‑like widget that renders a liquid glass shader behind its child.

Key parameters (Container‑compatible):
- `alignment`, `padding`, `color`, `decoration`, `foregroundDecoration`
- `width`, `height`, `constraints`, `margin`, `transform`, `transformAlignment`
- `clipBehavior` (default `Clip.antiAlias`)
- `child`
- `glassEnabled` = `true`

Example:
```dart
const LiquidGlassContainer(
  width: 320,
  height: 180,
  decoration: BoxDecoration(
    gradient: LinearGradient(colors: [Colors.blue, Colors.purple]),
    borderRadius: BorderRadius.all(Radius.circular(20)),
  ),
  child: Center(child: Text('Hello Glass')),
)
```

### 6) `MotionBlurLayer`
Applies a subtle motion blur based on widget movement. You can provide your own velocity.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `enabled` = `true`
- `velocity` = `null` (use auto‑measured motion when not provided)

Example:
```dart
const MotionBlurLayer(
  child: YourMovingWidget(),
)
```

### 7) `CurlCard`
Interactive card with a page‑curl shader overlay and optional action layer underneath.

Constructor:
- `width`, `height` required
- `content` required (top layer)
- `actionLayer` = `null` (revealed underneath)
- `borderRadius` = `16.0`
- `curlThreshold` = `150.0` (gesture distance for full curl)
- `animationDuration` = `240ms`
- `animationCurve` = `Curves.easeOut`
- `onCurlStart`/`onCurlUpdate(double amount)`/`onCurlComplete(double amount)`
- `enabled` = `true`

Example:
```dart
CurlCard(
  width: 300,
  height: 180,
  content: Container(color: Colors.blue),
  actionLayer: Container(color: Colors.red),
  onCurlComplete: (amount) {
    if (amount > 0.5) debugPrint('Dismiss');
  },
)
```

### 8) `SpreadingFrostImageSwitcher`
Animates a frost ring to transition from `current` to `next` content.

Constructor:
- `current`, `next` required
- `duration` = `900ms`
- `curve` = `Curves.easeInOut`
- `frostiness` = `0.5`
- `blurAmount` = `2.0`
- `ringWidth` = `0.12`
- `ringIrregularity` = `0.25`
- `ringNoiseScale` = `1.0`
- `bloomStrength` = `0.35`
- `bloomWidth` = `10.0`
- `bloomColor` = `Color(0xCCFFFFFF)`
- `onCompleted` = `null`
- `controller` = `null` (`SpreadingFrostController`)

Example:
```dart
final frost = SpreadingFrostController();

SpreadingFrostImageSwitcher(
  controller: frost,
  current: const Placeholder(),
  next: const FlutterLogo(size: 120),
)

// Trigger later
frost.play();
```

### 9) `SpreadingFrostWidget`
Convenience wrapper over `SpreadingFrostImageSwitcher` for arbitrary widgets (not just images). Same parameters.

Example:
```dart
const SpreadingFrostWidget(
  current: Text('A'),
  next: Text('B'),
)
```

### 10) `WeatherRainLayer`
Rainy glass post‑process with blur and refraction. Supports backdrop and screen‑anchored raindrops.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `rainAmount` = `0.75` (0..1)
- `maxBlur` = `6.0`
- `minBlur` = `2.0`
- `refraction` = `40.0` (pixels)
- `speed` = `1.0`
- `enabled` = `true`
- `useBackdrop` = `false`
- `lockToScreen` = `false` (anchor pattern to screen in non‑backdrop mode)

Example:
```dart
const WeatherRainLayer(
  child: YourContent(),
  rainAmount: 0.7,
)
```

### 11) `ShaderUtils`
Utility for resolving package shader asset paths.

API:
- `static String getShaderAssetPath(String shaderName)` → returns `packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/<shaderName>`.

You generally don’t need this directly unless building custom wrappers.

### 12) Barrel export: `flutter_shaders.dart`
Single import for all widgets/utilities in this package.

```dart
import 'package:flutter_shader_kit/flutter_shaders.dart';
```

Exports:
- Widgets: `curl_card.dart`, `liquid_glass_container.dart`, `spreading_frost_image_switcher.dart`, `spreading_frost_widget.dart`, `frost_shader_layer.dart`, `frost_blur_layer.dart`, `fractal_blur_layer.dart`, `weather_rain_layer.dart`, `motion_blur_layer.dart`, `cloud_shader.dart`
- Utils: `utils/shader_utils.dart`

---

## Examples by effect

Clouds background with content overlay:
```dart
const CloudShader(
  style: CloudShaderStyle.toon,
  child: Center(child: Text('Toon clouds')),
)
```

Rainy glass over a photo card:
```dart
const SizedBox(
  width: 320,
  height: 200,
  child: WeatherRainLayer(
    child: Image(asset: 'assets/images/photo.jpg', fit: BoxFit.cover),
  ),
)
```

Motion blur around a moving avatar:
```dart
const MotionBlurLayer(
  child: CircleAvatar(radius: 32, child: Icon(Icons.person)),
)
```

---

## Performance and platform notes
- Prefer release/profile builds when evaluating visual quality and performance.
- Backdrop variants (`useBackdrop: true`) depend on `ImageFilter.shader`. This is supported on engines with Impeller; on others, these code paths may no‑op with graceful fallbacks.
- Most parameters are real‑valued; start with defaults, then adjust gradually.

---

## Contributing
Issues and PRs are welcome. Please include screenshots or short screen captures for visual changes.

---

## License
BSD‑style, following the original Flutter authors’ license header.

# flutter_shaders

A collection of utilities to make working with the FragmentProgram API easier.

## Features

- **ShaderBuilder**: Easily load and cache fragment shaders
- **AnimatedSampler**: Capture widget content as texture for shader sampling
- **SetUniforms**: Convenient API for setting shader uniforms without manual index management
- **ShaderInkFeatureFactory**: Custom Material ink splash effects with shaders
- **CurlCard**: Ready-to-use page curl card widget with swipe gesture support

## Getting Started

### Installation

Add this to your package's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter_shaders: ^latest_version
```

### Basic Usage

#### Using ShaderBuilder

```dart
import 'package:flutter_shaders/flutter_shaders.dart';

ShaderBuilder(
  assetKey: 'shaders/my_shader.frag',
  (context, shader, child) {
    return CustomPaint(
      painter: MyShaderPainter(shader),
      child: child,
    );
  },
  child: Text('Hello Shader!'),
)
```

#### Using AnimatedSampler with ShaderBuilder

```dart
ShaderBuilder(
  assetKey: 'packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/pixelation.frag',
  (context, shader, child) {
    return AnimatedSampler(
      (image, size, canvas) {
        shader.setFloatUniforms((uniforms) {
          uniforms
            ..setFloat(10.0) // pixels X
            ..setFloat(10.0) // pixels Y
            ..setSize(size);
        });
        shader.setImageSampler(0, image);
        canvas.drawRect(
          Offset.zero & size,
          Paint()..shader = shader,
        );
      },
      child: Text('Pixelated!', style: TextStyle(fontSize: 24)),
    );
  },
)
```

#### Using CurlCard Widget

```dart
CurlCard(
  width: 300,
  height: 200,
  borderRadius: 16,
  content: Container(
    decoration: BoxDecoration(
      gradient: LinearGradient(
        colors: [Colors.blue, Colors.purple],
      ),
    ),
    child: Center(
      child: Text('Swipe me!', style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white)),
    ),
  ),
  actionLayer: Container(
    color: Colors.red,
    child: Align(
      alignment: Alignment.centerRight,
      child: Padding(
        padding: EdgeInsets.all(16),
        child: Icon(Icons.delete, color: Colors.white),
      ),
    ),
  ),
  onCurlComplete: (amount) {
    if (amount > 0.5) {
      print('Card dismissed!');
    }
  },
)
```

#### Setting Uniforms Made Easy

```dart
shader.setFloatUniforms((setter) {
  setter.setFloat(1.0);
  setter.setSize(const Size(100, 200));
  setter.setColor(Colors.red);
  setter.setOffset(const Offset(10, 20));
  setter.setMatrix4(Matrix4.identity());
});
```

#### Custom Material Ink Splash

```dart
MaterialApp(
  theme: ThemeData(
    splashFactory: ShaderInkFeatureFactory(
      program,
      (shader, {
        required animation,
        required color,
        required position,
        required referenceBoxSize,
        required targetRadius,
        required textDirection,
      }) {
        shader.setFloatUniforms((u) => u
          ..setFloat(animation)
          ..setColor(color, premultiply: true)
          ..setFloat(targetRadius)
          ..setOffset(position));
      },
    ),
  ),
  home: MyApp(),
)
```

## Available Shaders

This package includes shaders that can be included in your application by declaring them in the pubspec.yaml:

### Pixelation Shader

Reduces the provided sampler to M×N samples for a pixelated effect.

**Required Uniforms:**
- `vec2 uPixels`: Number of pixels in X and Y
- `vec2 uSize`: Width and height of the sampled area
- `sampler2D uTexture`: The child widget captured as texture

**Usage:**
```yaml
flutter:
  shaders:
    - packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/pixelation.frag
```

### Curl Effect Shader

Creates a realistic page curl effect with proper lighting and perspective.

**Required Uniforms:**
- `vec2 resolution`: Total rendering area size
- `float pointer`: Current touch/drag X position
- `float origin`: Starting touch X position
- `vec4 container`: Bounding box (left, top, right, bottom)
- `float cornerRadius`: Border radius of the card
- `sampler2D image`: The content to be curled

**Usage:**
```yaml
flutter:
  shaders:
    - packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/curl.frag
```

Or use the pre-built `CurlCard` widget (recommended).

## API Reference

### CurlCard

A card widget with page-curl effect on horizontal swipe. The curl shader is built-in, no need to register it separately.

**Properties:**
- `width` (required): Card width
- `height` (required): Card height
- `content` (required): Main card content widget
- `actionLayer`: Widget revealed underneath curl (optional)
- `borderRadius`: Corner radius (default: 16.0)
- `curlThreshold`: Distance for curl visibility (default: 150.0)
- `animationDuration`: Snap-back duration (default: 240ms)
- `animationCurve`: Snap-back curve (default: Curves.easeOut)
- `enabled`: Enable/disable curl gesture (default: true)

**Callbacks:**
- `onCurlStart`: Called when curl gesture starts
- `onCurlUpdate(double amount)`: Called during curl (0.0 to 1.0)
- `onCurlComplete(double amount)`: Called when gesture ends

**Dynamic Padding:**
The CurlCard automatically calculates padding based on card size to prevent the curl effect from being cropped. The padding scales with card dimensions while maintaining a minimum of 150px and maximum of 300px.

### ShaderBuilder

Widget that loads and caches FragmentProgram shaders.

**Methods:**
- `ShaderBuilder.precacheShader(String assetKey)`: Preload shader for immediate availability

### AnimatedSampler

Widget that captures child content as texture for shader sampling.

**Properties:**
- `builder`: Callback providing image, size, and canvas
- `child`: Widget to capture as texture
- `enabled`: Enable/disable sampling (default: true)

### SetUniforms Extension

Extension on `FragmentShader` for convenient uniform setting.

**Available Methods:**
- `setFloat(double)`
- `setFloats(List<double>)`
- `setSize(Size)`
- `setOffset(Offset)`
- `setColor(Color, {bool premultiply})`
- `setVector(Vector)`
- `setMatrix2/3/4(Matrix)`

## Examples

See the `example/` directory for complete working examples:
- Basic shader usage
- Pixelation effect
- Custom ink splash
- Curl card demos

## Creating Custom Shaders

Your GLSL shaders must:
1. Use `#version 460 core`
2. Include `<flutter/runtime_effect.glsl>` for Flutter helpers
3. Declare `out vec4 fragColor` for output
4. Use `FlutterFragCoord()` for pixel coordinates

Example shader:
```glsl
#version 460 core
#include <flutter/runtime_effect.glsl>

uniform vec2 uSize;
uniform vec4 uColor;

out vec4 fragColor;

void main() {
  vec2 uv = FlutterFragCoord().xy / uSize;
  fragColor = uColor * uv.x;
}
```

Register in `pubspec.yaml`:
```yaml
flutter:
  shaders:
    - shaders/my_shader.frag
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the BSD-style license - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Switch license to MIT and update metadata
Changed project license from BSD-style to MIT in LICENSE, README, and source headers. Updated pubspec.yaml with repository, homepage, and issue tracker fields, and reset version to 0.1.0. Minor code cleanups in widget and utility files.

README.md, after:

## flutter_shader_kit

High‑quality, real‑time UI effects powered by fragment shaders for Flutter. Flutter Shader Kit provides production‑ready widgets: frost overlays, reeded glass (fractal blur), rainy glass, motion blur, animated clouds, a liquid glass container, a curl card, and a frost transition switcher.

Works on Flutter 3.7+ with the FragmentProgram API. Backdrop modes that use ImageFilter.shader work best with Impeller.

### Why use this?
- GPU‑accelerated effects with minimal boilerplate
- Drop‑in widgets with sensible defaults and tunable parameters
- No manual shader plumbing in your app code

---

## Installation

Add the package and its shader runtime to your app. This library uses the utilities (`ShaderBuilder`, `AnimatedSampler`, etc.) from `flutter_shaders`.

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  # Shader runtime utilities used by this package
  flutter_shaders: ^0.1.3
  # This package
  flutter_shader_kit: ^0.1.0
```

If you’re using this repository directly (local development):

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  flutter_shaders: ^0.1.3
  # Use a local path or git dependency for this library
  flutter_shader_kit:
    path: ../flutter_shader_fork
```

Notes:
- Shader assets are bundled in this package – consumers don’t need to list them in their app’s `flutter: shaders:` section.
- Backdrop variants rely on `ImageFilter.shader`. On devices/targets without Impeller support, these gracefully no‑op (fall back) where possible.

---

## Quick start

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:flutter_shader_kit/flutter_shaders.dart';

void main() => runApp(const MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const MyApp({super.key});
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      home: Scaffold(
        body: Stack(
          children: [
            // Animated clouds background
            const CloudShader(),
            Center(
              child: Column(
                mainAxisSize: MainAxisSize.min,
                children: const [
                  // Reeded glass look over any child
                  SizedBox(
                    width: 300,
                    height: 160,
                    child: FractalBlurLayer(
                      child: FlutterLogo(size: 120),
                    ),
                  ),
                  SizedBox(height: 24),
                  // Frost overlay you can trigger with a controller
                  FrostShaderLayer(
                    child: Text('Frost me'),
                  ),
                ],
              ),
            ),
          ],
        ),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

---

## Widgets and utilities

Below are each widget/utility, parameters, defaults, and example usage.

### 1) `CloudShader`
Animated procedural cloud backgrounds. Two styles: `realistic` (noise‑based) and `toon` (stylized).

Imports:
```dart
import 'package:flutter_shader_kit/flutter_shaders.dart';
```

Constructor (defaults shown):
- `style` = `CloudShaderStyle.realistic`
- `child` = `null` (optional overlay content)
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `enabled` = `true`
- `animate` = `true`
- `animationSpeed` = `1.0`
- `cloudDensity` = `1.0` (realistic)
- `noisiness` = `0.35` (realistic)
- `flowSpeed` = `0.1` (realistic)
- `cloudHeight` = `2.5` (realistic)
- `brightness` = `1.0` (realistic)
- `windSpeed` = `1.0` (toon)
- `blurScale` = `1.0` (toon)
- `skyColor`/`cloudColor` = `null` (auto by style)
- `opacity` = `1.0`

Example:
```dart
const CloudShader(
  style: CloudShaderStyle.realistic,
  opacity: 0.95,
  child: Center(child: Text('On top of clouds')),
)
```

### 2) `FractalBlurLayer`
Reeded glass effect (directional blur + refraction) applied to a child or backdrop.

Constructor:
- `child` (Widget) required
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `frequency` = `40.0`
- `refractAmount` = `500.0`
- `split` = `1.0` (mix between processed/original)
- `feather` = `0.003`
- `blurRadius` = `20.0`
- `blurStrength` = `1.0`
- `enabled` = `true`
- `useBackdrop` = `false` (uses `BackdropFilter` when `true`)

Example:
```dart
const FractalBlurLayer(
  blurRadius: 16,
  blurStrength: 0.85,
  child: YourContent(),
)
```

### 3) `FrostBlurLayer`
Frosted glass blur/distortion with optional circle/rounded‑rect clipping and backdrop mode.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `shape` = `BoxShape.rectangle`
- `noiseScale` = `6.0`
- `distortion` = `0.045`
- `directionalMix` = `0.25`
- `iterations` = `12`
- `blend` = `1.0` (0 = original, 1 = full frost)
- `enabled` = `true`
- `useBackdrop` = `false`
- `borderRadius` = `null` (when rectangle)

Example (rounded rectangle):
```dart
const FrostBlurLayer(
  borderRadius: BorderRadius.all(Radius.circular(24)),
  child: YourContent(),
)
```

### 4) `FrostShaderLayer`
Spreading frost overlay animation over its child. Trigger via `FrostLayerController`.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `controller` = `null`
- `duration` = `900ms`
- `curve` = `Curves.easeInOutCubic`
- `frostiness` = `0.55`
- `blurAmount` = `3.0`
- `ringWidth` = `0.12`
- `ringIrregularity` = `0.28`
- `ringNoiseScale` = `1.2`
- `bloomStrength` = `0.35`
- `bloomWidth` = `12.0`
- `bloomColor` = `Color(0xCCBFE3FF)`
- `onCompleted` = `null`

Usage:
```dart
final controller = FrostLayerController();

FrostShaderLayer(
  controller: controller,
  child: const YourContent(),
)

// Trigger later
controller.play();
```

### 5) `LiquidGlassContainer`
Container‑like widget that renders a liquid glass shader behind its child.

Key parameters (Container‑compatible):
- `alignment`, `padding`, `color`, `decoration`, `foregroundDecoration`
- `width`, `height`, `constraints`, `margin`, `transform`, `transformAlignment`
- `clipBehavior` (default `Clip.antiAlias`)
- `child`
- `glassEnabled` = `true`

Example:
```dart
const LiquidGlassContainer(
  width: 320,
  height: 180,
  decoration: BoxDecoration(
    gradient: LinearGradient(colors: [Colors.blue, Colors.purple]),
    borderRadius: BorderRadius.all(Radius.circular(20)),
  ),
  child: Center(child: Text('Hello Glass')),
)
```

### 6) `MotionBlurLayer`
Applies a subtle motion blur based on widget movement. You can provide your own velocity.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `enabled` = `true`
- `velocity` = `null` (use auto‑measured motion when not provided)

Example:
```dart
const MotionBlurLayer(
  child: YourMovingWidget(),
)
```

### 7) `CurlCard`
Interactive card with a page‑curl shader overlay and optional action layer underneath.

Constructor:
- `width`, `height` required
- `content` required (top layer)
- `actionLayer` = `null` (revealed underneath)
- `borderRadius` = `16.0`
- `curlThreshold` = `150.0` (gesture distance for full curl)
- `animationDuration` = `240ms`
- `animationCurve` = `Curves.easeOut`
- `onCurlStart`/`onCurlUpdate(double amount)`/`onCurlComplete(double amount)`
- `enabled` = `true`

Example:
```dart
CurlCard(
  width: 300,
  height: 180,
  content: Container(color: Colors.blue),
  actionLayer: Container(color: Colors.red),
  onCurlComplete: (amount) {
    if (amount > 0.5) debugPrint('Dismiss');
  },
)
```

### 8) `SpreadingFrostImageSwitcher`
Animates a frost ring to transition from `current` to `next` content.

Constructor:
- `current`, `next` required
- `duration` = `900ms`
- `curve` = `Curves.easeInOut`
- `frostiness` = `0.5`
- `blurAmount` = `2.0`
- `ringWidth` = `0.12`
- `ringIrregularity` = `0.25`
- `ringNoiseScale` = `1.0`
- `bloomStrength` = `0.35`
- `bloomWidth` = `10.0`
- `bloomColor` = `Color(0xCCFFFFFF)`
- `onCompleted` = `null`
- `controller` = `null` (`SpreadingFrostController`)

Example:
```dart
final frost = SpreadingFrostController();

SpreadingFrostImageSwitcher(
  controller: frost,
  current: const Placeholder(),
  next: const FlutterLogo(size: 120),
)

// Trigger later
frost.play();
```

### 9) `SpreadingFrostWidget`
Convenience wrapper over `SpreadingFrostImageSwitcher` for arbitrary widgets (not just images). Same parameters.

Example:
```dart
const SpreadingFrostWidget(
  current: Text('A'),
  next: Text('B'),
)
```

### 10) `WeatherRainLayer`
Rainy glass post‑process with blur and refraction. Supports backdrop and screen‑anchored raindrops.

Constructor:
- `child` required
- `width`/`height` = `null`
- `rainAmount` = `0.75` (0..1)
- `maxBlur` = `6.0`
- `minBlur` = `2.0`
- `refraction` = `40.0` (pixels)
- `speed` = `1.0`
- `enabled` = `true`
- `useBackdrop` = `false`
- `lockToScreen` = `false` (anchor pattern to screen in non‑backdrop mode)

Example:
```dart
const WeatherRainLayer(
  child: YourContent(),
  rainAmount: 0.7,
)
```

### 11) `ShaderUtils`
Utility for resolving package shader asset paths.

API:
- `static String getShaderAssetPath(String shaderName)` → returns `packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/<shaderName>`.

You generally don’t need this directly unless building custom wrappers.

### 12) Barrel export: `flutter_shaders.dart`
Single import for all widgets/utilities in this package.

```dart
import 'package:flutter_shader_kit/flutter_shaders.dart';
```

Exports:
- Widgets: `curl_card.dart`, `liquid_glass_container.dart`, `spreading_frost_image_switcher.dart`, `spreading_frost_widget.dart`, `frost_shader_layer.dart`, `frost_blur_layer.dart`, `fractal_blur_layer.dart`, `weather_rain_layer.dart`, `motion_blur_layer.dart`, `cloud_shader.dart`
- Utils: `utils/shader_utils.dart`

---

## Examples by effect

Clouds background with content overlay:
```dart
const CloudShader(
  style: CloudShaderStyle.toon,
  child: Center(child: Text('Toon clouds')),
)
```

Rainy glass over a photo card:
```dart
const SizedBox(
  width: 320,
  height: 200,
  child: WeatherRainLayer(
    child: Image(asset: 'assets/images/photo.jpg', fit: BoxFit.cover),
  ),
)
```

Motion blur around a moving avatar:
```dart
const MotionBlurLayer(
  child: CircleAvatar(radius: 32, child: Icon(Icons.person)),
)
```

---

## Performance and platform notes
- Prefer release/profile builds when evaluating visual quality and performance.
- Backdrop variants (`useBackdrop: true`) depend on `ImageFilter.shader`. This is supported on engines with Impeller; on others, these code paths may no‑op with graceful fallbacks.
- Most parameters are real‑valued; start with defaults, then adjust gradually.

---

## Contributing
Issues and PRs are welcome. Please include screenshots or short screen captures for visual changes.
You’re encouraged to contribute new shaders and effects; include a minimal demo and document parameters.

---

## License
MIT. Free to use, modify, and distribute. See the LICENSE file.

# flutter_shaders

A collection of utilities to make working with the FragmentProgram API easier.

## Features

- **ShaderBuilder**: Easily load and cache fragment shaders
- **AnimatedSampler**: Capture widget content as texture for shader sampling
- **SetUniforms**: Convenient API for setting shader uniforms without manual index management
- **ShaderInkFeatureFactory**: Custom Material ink splash effects with shaders
- **CurlCard**: Ready-to-use page curl card widget with swipe gesture support

## Getting Started

### Installation

Add this to your package's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter_shaders: ^latest_version
```

### Basic Usage

#### Using ShaderBuilder

```dart
import 'package:flutter_shaders/flutter_shaders.dart';

ShaderBuilder(
  assetKey: 'shaders/my_shader.frag',
  (context, shader, child) {
    return CustomPaint(
      painter: MyShaderPainter(shader),
      child: child,
    );
  },
  child: Text('Hello Shader!'),
)
```

#### Using AnimatedSampler with ShaderBuilder

```dart
ShaderBuilder(
  assetKey: 'packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/pixelation.frag',
  (context, shader, child) {
    return AnimatedSampler(
      (image, size, canvas) {
        shader.setFloatUniforms((uniforms) {
          uniforms
            ..setFloat(10.0) // pixels X
            ..setFloat(10.0) // pixels Y
            ..setSize(size);
        });
        shader.setImageSampler(0, image);
        canvas.drawRect(
          Offset.zero & size,
          Paint()..shader = shader,
        );
      },
      child: Text('Pixelated!', style: TextStyle(fontSize: 24)),
    );
  },
)
```

#### Using CurlCard Widget

```dart
CurlCard(
  width: 300,
  height: 200,
  borderRadius: 16,
  content: Container(
    decoration: BoxDecoration(
      gradient: LinearGradient(
        colors: [Colors.blue, Colors.purple],
      ),
    ),
    child: Center(
      child: Text('Swipe me!', style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white)),
    ),
  ),
  actionLayer: Container(
    color: Colors.red,
    child: Align(
      alignment: Alignment.centerRight,
      child: Padding(
        padding: EdgeInsets.all(16),
        child: Icon(Icons.delete, color: Colors.white),
      ),
    ),
  ),
  onCurlComplete: (amount) {
    if (amount > 0.5) {
      print('Card dismissed!');
    }
  },
)
```

#### Setting Uniforms Made Easy

```dart
shader.setFloatUniforms((setter) {
  setter.setFloat(1.0);
  setter.setSize(const Size(100, 200));
  setter.setColor(Colors.red);
  setter.setOffset(const Offset(10, 20));
  setter.setMatrix4(Matrix4.identity());
});
```

#### Custom Material Ink Splash

```dart
MaterialApp(
  theme: ThemeData(
    splashFactory: ShaderInkFeatureFactory(
      program,
      (shader, {
        required animation,
        required color,
        required position,
        required referenceBoxSize,
        required targetRadius,
        required textDirection,
      }) {
        shader.setFloatUniforms((u) => u
          ..setFloat(animation)
          ..setColor(color, premultiply: true)
          ..setFloat(targetRadius)
          ..setOffset(position));
      },
    ),
  ),
  home: MyApp(),
)
```

## Available Shaders

This package includes shaders that can be included in your application by declaring them in the pubspec.yaml:

### Pixelation Shader

Reduces the provided sampler to M×N samples for a pixelated effect.

**Required Uniforms:**
- `vec2 uPixels`: Number of pixels in X and Y
- `vec2 uSize`: Width and height of the sampled area
- `sampler2D uTexture`: The child widget captured as texture

**Usage:**
```yaml
flutter:
  shaders:
    - packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/pixelation.frag
```

### Curl Effect Shader

Creates a realistic page curl effect with proper lighting and perspective.

**Required Uniforms:**
- `vec2 resolution`: Total rendering area size
- `float pointer`: Current touch/drag X position
- `float origin`: Starting touch X position
- `vec4 container`: Bounding box (left, top, right, bottom)
- `float cornerRadius`: Border radius of the card
- `sampler2D image`: The content to be curled

**Usage:**
```yaml
flutter:
  shaders:
    - packages/flutter_shaders/shaders/curl.frag
```

Or use the pre-built `CurlCard` widget (recommended).

## API Reference

### CurlCard

A card widget with page-curl effect on horizontal swipe. The curl shader is built-in, no need to register it separately.

**Properties:**
- `width` (required): Card width
- `height` (required): Card height
- `content` (required): Main card content widget
- `actionLayer`: Widget revealed underneath curl (optional)
- `borderRadius`: Corner radius (default: 16.0)
- `curlThreshold`: Distance for curl visibility (default: 150.0)
- `animationDuration`: Snap-back duration (default: 240ms)
- `animationCurve`: Snap-back curve (default: Curves.easeOut)
- `enabled`: Enable/disable curl gesture (default: true)

**Callbacks:**
- `onCurlStart`: Called when curl gesture starts
- `onCurlUpdate(double amount)`: Called during curl (0.0 to 1.0)
- `onCurlComplete(double amount)`: Called when gesture ends

**Dynamic Padding:**
The CurlCard automatically calculates padding based on card size to prevent the curl effect from being cropped. The padding scales with card dimensions while maintaining a minimum of 150px and maximum of 300px.

### ShaderBuilder

Widget that loads and caches FragmentProgram shaders.

**Methods:**
- `ShaderBuilder.precacheShader(String assetKey)`: Preload shader for immediate availability

### AnimatedSampler

Widget that captures child content as texture for shader sampling.

**Properties:**
- `builder`: Callback providing image, size, and canvas
- `child`: Widget to capture as texture
- `enabled`: Enable/disable sampling (default: true)

### SetUniforms Extension

Extension on `FragmentShader` for convenient uniform setting.

**Available Methods:**
- `setFloat(double)`
- `setFloats(List<double>)`
- `setSize(Size)`
- `setOffset(Offset)`
- `setColor(Color, {bool premultiply})`
- `setVector(Vector)`
- `setMatrix2/3/4(Matrix)`

## Examples

See the `example/` directory for complete working examples:
- Basic shader usage
- Pixelation effect
- Custom ink splash
- Curl card demos

## Creating Custom Shaders

Your GLSL shaders must:
1. Use `#version 460 core`
2. Include `<flutter/runtime_effect.glsl>` for Flutter helpers
3. Declare `out vec4 fragColor` for output
4. Use `FlutterFragCoord()` for pixel coordinates

Example shader:
```glsl
#version 460 core
#include <flutter/runtime_effect.glsl>

uniform vec2 uSize;
uniform vec4 uColor;

out vec4 fragColor;

void main() {
  vec2 uv = FlutterFragCoord().xy / uSize;
  fragColor = uColor * uv.x;
}
```

Register in `pubspec.yaml`:
```yaml
flutter:
  shaders:
    - shaders/my_shader.frag
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license - see the LICENSE file for details.
